Thank you again. Good afternoon, and thank you very much for coming and participating.
Thank you, everyone. Thank you.
Again, I'm going to talk really about the teaching of the precious kindness competitive teacher,
and therefore, again, we're going to be activating our beautiful motivation of joy and appreciation
and involve each other. And then we'll get ready to begin our realization of the teaching,
which is three various stages. Bring all those beautiful motivations coming up.
Sizzling status, illuminating status, and then we'll begin to reflect the teaching.
And now, teaching, today I'm going to talk really about, again,
among the four realization of Nimjung number jay.
And today, among the Nimjung number jay, I'm going to talk about Samsara.
So what I did this last time, yesterday and all that, I've been talking about the precious life,
the human body, and then impermanence, and cause and effect are inevitable,
or karma is inevitable. And then Samsara has difficulty.
Today, we talk Samsara. Samsara is a little very old,
how it's translated in ancient times, or in the 8th century, those great emanated dance letters.
Dance is translated as Korwa. Korwa means spinning.
All one is rotating. That is really Korwa.
So that means Korwa is always rotating or spinning.
This rotating is general, of course. We can think, the everything is rotating.
External is rotating or spinning, inwardly is spinning.
Nothing is really stop or stays. It's all on the moon.
All is rotated. But this time, mainly we're talking about the inner beings who lived in Samsara.
They are spinning. Why they are spinning?
Because the cause of the karma, or negative emotions.
In the teaching it says, "Letting you move on." Karma and negative emotions max rotating.
That means we can't settle ourselves. They are settled.
In this Samsara, when it's rotating, it's not just rotating,
it's regularly or regularly, but always there are challenges, ups and downs.
In the middle, it's just continually. Always there is nothing that you can rely on.
And that's also one where good and bad is also not something that you can rely on all the time.
Bad is changing, good is changing, neutral is changing, everything is changing.
So that's how really this Samsara is.
And this Samsara has, if we talk about Samsara, or as the teaching says,
it has two, and we can make two differences.
First the general troubles of Samsara, and then specifically the troubles of Samsara.
And now what is Samsara? Who are Samsaras?
And this is again, if I say, in four or five different ways.
What is the place of Samsara? What is the place of Samsara? Who is rotating?
What is the cause of rotation? What's spinning?
And when it begins rotating, and how is spinning or rotating?
What are the examples of rotations or the spinning?
Those are the six different points we can highlight of this Samsara.
Now where is spinning or what is the place?
Place of spinning or rotation is known as six realms.
In the previous teaching, Samsara is not just only what we commonly know,
or this human world, but there is, besides human world, there are five other realms of wolves.
Ramps or wolves, in the world, I think maybe we can use.
So what are those? World of hill ramps, world of the hunger ghost ramps,
and the worlds of the animal ramps, and the worlds of the human ramps,
and the worlds of the asuras, and the worlds of the gods. World, w-o-r-l-d, the ramps.
That's what I'm talking of the world.
So there are six different worlds.
That six different world or the ramps is not reserved by any particular individual,
and a kind of selected group stays with that.
No, it's rotations. That's all about rotations.
One who is in hill ramps is not going to sleep forever there,
and the ones who are in human ramps, they are also not going to sleep forever there also.
Only in all gods, ramps, asuras, hunger ghosts, and ramps, it is always rotated.
So that means of all the beings of the six ramps rotating in those six different ramps, different r
amps,
when they begin to rotate it, when according to the gracious kind of a compaction teacher,
Buddha said from the beginningless times, no beginning, beginningless times.
So that means, for example, now I'm here, here, in the 21st century, in the year 2020, I think.
In the beginning of April, I'm here.
But it's not just the first time I came here, or I've been here.
I've been from the beginningless times.
And how? Rotations, rotating, coming, always moving, okay, I'm here now.
And not just me, I'm a good example, according to Buddha's teaching, we all are like the same.
We all rotate. How we rotate again? It's not knowingly we're rotating.
And you can't well plan the rotating. We are carried by the force of the karma and the negative
emotions.
We don't need our choice. At the beginning now, as I spoke yesterday,
the choice we have to choose when, what is the cause of this negative, such as karma and emotions,
is our mind.
We have negative karmas, negative emotions are not initiated, that's how we have choice.
We can make the difference, what we like to be.
But once it's done, once it's happened, then we have to follow the force of the karma and the
emotions.
There's nothing really going to change, except practice.
So that's how, from the beginningless times, what is the cause of these rotations?
I already explained, I already said, negative emotions, karmas are cause of the rotations or cause
of emotions.
Karma and the emotions are one's own creations. Nobody else created and overloaded or dropped to us
, and we have to carry that.
No, it's our own, our own creations. We created, created.
So that is the force of the rotation, or that is the fuel of the rotator, continuous.
How long this will be going to rotate? Or how long will it be on this samsara?
Endless. There's no end. Unless we stop, individually we stop, according to Buddhism, every stop.
By how? Stopping our negative emotions.
When we stop the negative emotions, naturally we will stop the negative action, the karma.
Then we are on the process to stop in the rotations, and we're going to have the end of the life
and the karma, or end of the journey.
That will happen. So that is a long way, unless we stop.
Stop by practicing dharma, simple ways to practice, meditating, cultivating positive attitude or
positive mind, love and completeness.
What is an example of rotations?
That is a technique said as like bees are flying, or what's called this, flies, flies flies in a
jar, in a jar.
When you put a fly in the jar, or when you put a bee in the big jar, even though they are flying,
but they cannot go out of the jar.
They drop it in a jar. They go sometimes up, sometimes down, sometimes the middle, and sometimes
the cover.
Whatever it is, never going to be able to go out. That's how we are really rotating in this samsara
.
Up, don'ts, all that. But the cause of that, again I already mentioned, is because of karma,
negative emotions.
Sometimes the kind of good positive attitude with negative emotions will revert in God's hands.
And sometimes, more negative and more negative, we take rebirth in the lower hands.
And mixture of those which have rebirth in human hands, or according to the variety of the mixture
of the negative emotions and positive attitude.
And that creates the karma, and then we take the birth according to those different samsara.
How long we have to stay there in each of those, in each period? That is according, again, if there
comes.
That could be like five years, six years, or a hundred years, or more than that, or according that,
again, able to stay.
And then again, we migrate. Migrating, or we transfer, or we can rebirth.
To that again, follow with karma, and our own deeds.
That is the general kind of understanding of samsara. Samsara, how those are.
And then, during that time, in the samsara, there are three principles, troubles.
All three principles can relate to difficulties, or challenges, or, if I use the word, suffering,
or uncomfortables.
Three principles. Those are known as pervasive troubles, and erupting troubles, and trouble after
trouble.
Ever translated more as trouble, or in other words, we can translate it as suffering.
But where is the sufferings? Erupting sufferings, suffering after sufferings, or difficulty after
difficulties.
Difficulties, trouble, suffering, uncomfortable, unbelievable situation, whatever we let go of use.
All can be almost the same. But that is the tendence of the samsara. We cannot avoid that.
And what means pervasive suffering? In the teaching I said, as long as you have the negative
emotions,
as long as you have the grasping clinging, the ego clingings, that long there is always hidden
pervasive troubles.
Hidden, pervasive, uncomfortable. That is no different between anyone. Everyone has that.
That is known as pervasive. It is pervasive. From the hell realm to all the god's realms, or from
the astral realm to the human world, all animal realms, hungry ghost realms, everything.
Then erupting troubles are translated. Also sometimes also translated as changeable suffering,
changeable troubles.
It's kind of occasionally coming. And that is kind of, for example, happening more in the human
world.
Human world is generally, or generally, is beautiful realms. It is one of three upper realms,
higher standard realms.
It is quite good. But also not really completely. It is kind of free from the trouble. It is going
to erupt, suddenly shooting the troubles, sometimes unexpected.
Because the tendence of the pervasive troubles there, therefore some condition circumstances can't,
it erupts, it counts.
That's known as erupting troubles, or erupting on pieces.
Trouble, upper troubles, all challenge, upper challenge, challenge. Where is that happening?
It's mostly in a, in a, mostly, or constantly is happening in three lower realms. And hell realms,
hunger ghost realms, and animal realms.
There is constantly of that happening. That is also not just only those three realms, but in human
world we have so many of those troubles.
Troubles, one trouble comes when trying to solve that problem, suddenly there is another trouble
comes, unexpected. Another trouble comes.
One after another, there is no enough sometimes. Happen. Those are known as trouble, upper troubles
.
Those are the pervasive problems shared by all the realms. Again, as I said, pervasive suffering is
kind of mainly kind of involved in the ghost realms.
They don't have a gross suffering immediately. They are kind of invisible ways. It's hidden, kind
of sleeping, dopey status, kind of in a way an intermission status. But there is, can be.
And human realm is kind of more on it, changeable that trouble, erupting with kind of status.
And human realm is a little more on, sorry, the lower realm, the lower realm is a little more kind
of on that changing, upper changing at the top of us.
Those are generally kind of like difficulty challenges of the old six realms or the samsara go
through.
So that's generally. But simply in each of those samsara or the realm has then their own kind of
designated more high like troubles.
Then those are, again, the teachings said, for example, three lower realms, realms we should always
think in all these different ways.
A board there, the area where they are, the body, what they have, what kind of body they have, and
how, what kind of challenges they have, how long they are going to experience that.
So that means we are going to reflect our mind. I mean it's not just reflecting, but we highlight
four different ways of those lower realms, situations.
Place, and then their picture or the current feeling in the picture and what troubles or the
experience they are going, how long they are going to experience.
Let's say that, four different ways. And we think of the four that way. The pose, the place of the
three lower realms, particularly the head realms, is known as place of the heart and the core.
It's heart and core. Core, area of core, area of the heart. That is the place they live. Heart is
not just heart.
The temperature is like a hundred degrees, a hundred and ten, so a hundred and fifteen, it's all
ninety degrees. That's not.
The core entity is seven times more harder than the prior. That's just the minimum of these heavens
. That's heart.
And then plus, there is so many other difficult kind of pictures and areas, unpleasant situations,
according to teaching.
So many different things. So that is the place, this place where they stay, have to stay.
Their body, what kind of their bodies are. Again, so uncomfortable, so frightful, so sensitive,
more sensitive than a small baby, even the baby, baby's skin.
So sensitive, by act, so kind of frightful, they steward, kind of unpleasant bodies.
Those are the features that they have to stay until whatever that is.
And what kind of suffering, difficulties? Constantly difficult troubles, according to teaching.
Constantly troubles, very difficult, very tough. Constantly. How long?
According to teaching, many eons are told in years, hundreds, hundreds of years, almost there is no
end. It's that stage.
What is the cause of these disabilities? The cause of teaching is karma.
Mainly it is the anger, raging anger, reflecting that anger and disturbing so many beings by the
anger.
Greedy, self-important, and then that raging anger arises and disturbs so many beings, and that
result is that's what's said.
Then similarly, then one after another, I'm not going to go through. All that you can look through.
There are so many beautiful books explaining,
detailing all that and translating it into English, such as "World, So My Perfect Teacher," "Woke
on the Lamb, Shallow." It's really those more details, beautiful, those explainings,
learning how those are going through. This is nothing but, again, each individual they are
experiencing through that.
This is like the most difficult nightmares, nightmares they go through.
For example, while we're sleeping in a beautiful bed, calm, peaceful, beautiful house, beautiful
room, and everything is perfect, beautiful, and suddenly we have nightmares.
Everything is completely complete. The area, perception is completely changed, such as I'm using
the examples. Everything is changed, perception, consumption, everything is changed.
You become dark, trying to call, very trembling, you can't be like, poor, dense, and very kind of
helpless, and then went through the big, the biggest nightmare you went.
And this, who's experiencing that? That individually, we're going through that nightmare who are in
that status.
Similarly, the hell realm is like also that. Why that nightmare is, what is the cause of that?
It's because of unknowing the one's own mind, and kind of making distance between subject and
object.
Strongly regimented, and then kind of like you be completely crushed with that. And where is that
in our mind?
Well, we are dreaming. We truly go through that. But when we wake up, what is that?
Then we can say, "Taste, oh wow, thanks, it is my dream, so good." We say, "Deep breath."
That's true, really. That's it. So this hell realm experience, all this is like that, our own
creation, our own karma, our own dream, which is reflecting back to our own.
It's not something that maybe any other, something that we have to go through, can be anywhere.
I often think, we human beings are always used, also, for example, those animals.
Why are they going through all that? Boiling in the hot water, completely dropping in their lives.
Or crying the whole thing. Even they're making crying.
Truly, this individual is going through the elements. So this is what, how it is all experience,
all that.
It's not something, some 80 that we have to go through. So therefore, this is what the religious s
amsara has, all difficult troubles.
And for that reason, the cause of this is what is known as negative emotions.
Then, like the hungry ghost has so many difficulties, again, same place, boarding, and then
troubles, and the duration of the troubles.
Say, "A little better than hell realms." And then animals.
And animals, what is the troubles of the hungry ghost of animals? In the teaching, Oprin said,
hungry and thirsty.
That is like, troubles of not finding food, troubles of not finding the water, or drinks. Those are
the troubles.
And then similarly, the troubles of the human realms, or sorry, animals, is like darkness, or
stupidity, taking advantage by each other.
Others, even the human beings are using all that one after another. Those are the animals. Diff
iculties are animals.
And then the human realms, they principally highlight the troubles of the birds, getting old,
sicknesses, death.
And then between days, so many other things, not fulfilling our wishes, losing our hopes and goals.
And then, kind of like, things we don't want is happening. Thanks to what we want is not happening.
All those difficulties, troubles, challenges we go through, those are convenient.
And the other different realms can be had there, but this is mainly in human realms.
And Asura's realm is in the teaching said, they always had some pikings, and arguably, kurals.
And if they can't always, there is that competition, challenges, those troubles always exist.
And God's realm always has troubles of the pulling stones. God's realm is always very precious,
happy, peaceful, and everything is really perfect.
Until their last, kind of like, last life, their kind of end of the, toward the end of their lives,
maybe I should say, toward the end of their lives, they kind of just become uncomfortable.
Otherwise, God's realm is constant, always bleak. That's according to the teaching of the Buddha-Sh
akraman.
What in the teaching said, what are those? There is five different signs that come toward the end
of their lives.
And which means they're going to leave that wall, or they're going to change his coming.
It's a sign of the change. And the fourth is that God's realm, the pictures, is so weird, what you
call it in the teaching, so weird, so perfect, glowing, glowing, bright, and with all of them.
But toward the end of their lives, then that kind of glory is dreaming. That is shrinking,
shrinking, so they become more dull, dullness.
And then second, I can sign of the end of their stages, and then they suggest, as they don't have
any smells on the body, generally God's realm, don't have any smells of the body.
But toward the end of their lives, they have smells coming, and also they're sweating, sweatings.
And then, that is. And the third one is that they're always so happy wherever they go and wherever
they stay.
But somehow, they don't feel so comfortable to the place they stay, or the thrones, or whatever it
is.
That is another sign of the dark that's kind of told in their lives.
And then another thing is, then, because they have always beautiful ornament, according to the
teaching, they have so many ornaments, particularly kind of fresh flowers.
Flowers, they have beautiful flowers, kind of decorating their bodies, but now, they're never those
big flowers, like they're getting old.
It's always so pretty, so shimmering, glowing, but toward the end of their lives, then these
flowers are getting old, kind of obsolete.
And then also, their friends, they're all kind of playing, talking with them, and the friends are,
because of the situation, they're a little bit kind of distending that.
Those are known as the sign of the end of their life, and that is according to the teaching, those
are very challenging, difficult times.
So that means, in the samsara, there is no really kind of like ornament, there's reliable places
that we stay.
So this is what the house of samsara is. For those reasons, according to the teaching, we should
make ourselves, like really set up kind of ourselves more goals and commitment and resolutions that
I'm going to increase my joy, love, kindness, compare towards, and really activate with and relate
with that.
And set, change the directions, change the rhythm of the movement of the God. I'm going to do that,
I'm going to follow with that.
I'm going to take meaningful of these lives, meaningful of these lives, to benefit to myself, to
all the beings.
I'm going to bring more joy, more peace, more happiness, more love, more kindness, compare towards,
for all the sentient, according to my capabilities, and more calm, more peaceful.
When we have that attitude in our heart and mind, our action will be more calm, more peaceful, more
soothing, and more relaxed, and that is known as positive. That is dharma, practice dharma.
So that is my bridge talk about samsara.
Samsara, again, more teacher, you can read, such as teaching, of the great master, the partner, who
was my teacher, or from Zala, that those soul, which still is beautiful, and there are other books
too.
So that, by that I completed really about explaining of and through of this four-renowned sacred
thought.
This four-renowned sacred thought, as I said, the other day, is the essence of the Buddha's first
two noble truths.
Suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, will reflect me on that. Once we reflect me on that,
then what we should do?
Then we follow the part truth, and then it will bring the cessation truth.
So following part truth is, begin to practice. Begin to cultivate the beautiful motivations.
With that beautiful motivation, we practice. Dharma, exactly, as laid out by the gracious, kindness
teacher, Buddha, Shakyamuni, and Gaurabhama, some of all those great masters.
That is known as the following part truth.
And that is my bridge talk for today. Thank you very much again, and for your participating, and
again coming, and then we continue tomorrow.
Thank you, okay? Thank you very much. And now again we do short meditation.